[Music]
hi Great Britain a country of
centuries-old traditions and some of
them might seem strange to foreigners
but the Brits aren't in a hurry to
change something just because the rest
of the world does it differently welcome
to an English home and be ready for a
surprise in almost every room double
faucets these are double faucets for hot
and cold water in Britain when they
first appeared boilers were used to heat
water where the bacteria Listeria would
thrive people were at risk of getting
infected when they used the hot water
while the cold was pure and could be
used for drinking to avoid an outbreak
of listeriosis authorities forbade
mixing the hot and cold water the time
of old boilers passed long ago but
separate faucets can still be found
there mostly in older homes wondering
how they wash their hands the Brits kid
that they've gotten used to moving their
hands very quickly between the two
faucets if you don't have this skill you
can mix the water in the sink which is
good for conserving it too
another option is to buy a special
attachment that mixes the water water
laws in 1965 still another rule about
water was accepted the tap with hot
water has to always be installed on the
left side when it's possible to do so
this is done for people with poor sight
who might not see where it is and get
burned electricity and bathrooms you
won't find outlets in the bathroom the
voltage in Great Britain is higher than
in North America and in order to avoid
an electric shock there are even
pull-string light switches there they're
totally safe no matter how damp it is
British safety rules also demand that
you shouldn't be able to plug something
in an outlet when you're in the water
that's why there are outlets in the
kitchen where you have contact with a
wider but don't get into it other
countries have different rules but they
might not be as safe plugs the plugs
themselves are different they have three
pins instead of two power outlets have
an on switch which is good since you
don't have to unplug the device after
charging it simply turn off the outlet
itself
but if you forget to turn it on and
start charging your smartphone at
bedtime she might just oversleep washing
machines in the kitchen washing machines
are tucked in the kitchen because you
guessed it there are no outlets in the
bathroom British homes are usually
smaller than North American ones and
detached or semi-detached houses often
don't have separate laundry rooms or
even dryers to dry clothes
they hang them outside on clotheslines
reverse switches switches in Britain are
reversed you need to flip them down to
turn the light on and flip them up to
turn it off where does this tradition
come from nobody knows it's just a
convention interior doors now what could
be so unusual about doors
well they don't open to the
perpendicular wall but to the parallel
wall it might seem strange but it's good
for privacy nobody will see you without
clothes on if you're changing and forget
to lock the door
carpeting wall-to-wall carpeting can be
found anywhere in the house sometimes in
the bathroom too if you buy or rent a
house this won't even be mentioned in
the ad there's not usually another
option closets as common houses aren't
normally small there is a much free
space for full-size closets people try
to use every square foot to tuck them in
like the place under the stairs which is
usually pretty steep windows windows are
open either out up or down but not
inside it makes sense if you have a
small room but just think about how
you'd wash the windows Victorian windows
usually have only one glass pane and you
can't change them to modern ones since
old buildings should remain untouched
the Brits also don't use curtains only
blinds which are very thick and have
several layers air-conditioning there
are often air conditioners in British
homes since the temperature in summer
doesn't usually get too hot that's why
windows are used for ventilation and
have built-in air circuits so that fresh
air can get inside even when windows are
closed
can you imagine what kind of air leaks
they have that's why special long
pillows that prevent drafts are in great
demand covered up windows there are
hundreds of old houses in Britain with
covered up windows if this isn't strange
than what is well it also has a
reasonable historic explanation the
window tax introduced in 1696 levied a
tax on property owners based on the
number of windows they had the more
windows the house had the more tax the
owner had to pay usually it was the rich
who had larger houses with more windows
so the government thought it was a
brilliant way to make them pay more
taxes poor people with fewer than ten
windows were exempt from the window tax
altogether those people who couldn't
afford to pay the higher taxes or who
had dozens of windows in their big
mansions and wanted to economize would
build over the windows when the tax was
canceled people were probably so used to
the darkness that they didn't bother to
remove the bricks from the windows cold
inside houses it's usually very cold in
British homes during the Cold season
heating fees are high and the Brits
prefer to wear layers of warm clothes
rather than receive huge bills some
people turn the heat off for a whole
night and take a hot water bottle to bed
the government even had to decree that
it shouldn't be colder than 64 degrees
inside pipes on the house front another
detail that strikes strangers is that
water and sewer pipes aren't underground
but attached right to the front of the
house this is also part of an old
tradition when plumbing was much simpler
garbage cans garbage can stand close to
the main entrance as if they were the
owners pride the true reason is far more
practical though this is done for the
garbage collectors convenience in the
nineteenth century people used to burn
their waste in the back yard and ash
collectors would take the ash that was
left after burning by the 20th century
the amount of waste got bigger and too
much ash would be left over ash
collectors were wasting too much time
getting to the backyard
that's why authorities changed the waste
policy and obligated people to put their
garbage cans in front of the street door
for quick collection small yards there's
often not much space in the back yard
for a garbage can anyways some British
houses on the main streets of the town
are only a dozen feet wide and have a
super narrow backyard but still they
cost much more than houses on side
streets the reason is quite simple
everybody wanted to live on the Main
Street no matter how small the house is
and they still do mail delivery front
doors have special slots for the mail
and letters and newspapers fall right to
the floor of the entry if there's no
slot the mail is tucked under the front
door you remember that episode in Harry
Potter when dozens of letters from
Hogwarts flew through that slot inside
the house now you have an idea of what
I'm talking about
milk doors old houses also have special
tiny doors from milk they seem strange
now that you can go to any supermarket
and buy milk that stays fresh for months
but until the middle of the 20th century
dairy factories delivered milk right to
the buyers houses people would leave
empty bottles on the porch or behind a
special milk door that used to open both
from the inside and the outside I think
that's still a great idea
and finally this bonus remember when I
spoke about wall to wall carpeting
earlier well there's a special pond near
London where if you drop your wallet
into the water the carp fish there will
pass the wallet around to each other and
then toss it out of the water back to
you it's called carp dakar quality I'm
sorry
I couldn't help myself back to Britain
which of these strange details impressed
you the most maybe you've noticed others
let me know down in the comments hey if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life bright side
of